---
title: "Muscle Filopodia Relay Motor Axon to Target Muscle Field for Functional Synapse Formation"
collection: talks
type: "Oral Presentation"
permalink: /talks/2024-12-17-talk-1
venue: "2024 American Society for Cell Biology | EMBO Meeting, San Diego"
date: 2024-12-17
location: "San Diego, CA, USA"
---
I was selected to give a talk at the 2024 International ASCB Conference in a special interest session: *Finding the Right Path: From Development to Regeneration* 

Abstract: 

Precise positioning of axons is crucial for appropriate synaptic targeting and proper brain development.
The glutamatergic neuromuscular synapse of Drosophila serves as an excellent model for studying these
mechanisms. During axonal outgrowth, a motor neuron encounters various muscle cells, most of which
are not its correct target. Yet, the two non-matching cells can still interact through their respective
filopodia. While some muscle filopodia recognize partnering presynaptic neurons, their precise role in
axon guidance and targeting remains unclear. Our study investigates the filopodial activity and function
across the musculature in the Drosophila body wall which consists of 30 muscles and ~36 motoneurons.
To precisely map each muscle’s filopodia, we genetically labeled each muscle with membrane bound
GFP. We find that filopodia on the muscle is not restricted to only the presynaptic contact side, but
there are also additional hot spots of filopodial activity along the edges of the muscle corresponding to
the axonal trajectory during guidance.The presence of filopodia on either side raises the possibility that
they have a dual response for redirecting axons into target muscle field. Using live imaging, we observed
dynamic filopodia on both synaptic and non-synaptic sides, with the latter interacting with non-partner
neuron to relay the axon to its target muscle. These data indicate that muscle filopodia not only
facilitate synaptic connections but also play a crucial role in axon relay and targeting. In addition, we
found Fas2 (NCAM ortholog) localized at active filopodial sites with Dlg-1 (PSD-95 ortholog) restricted to
the post-synaptic site, suggesting distinct intracellular signaling mechanisms at different filopodial sites.
The elimination of filopodia further suggests that they are essential for synaptogenesis and precise axon
targeting. Our study reveals that muscle cells are sub-compartmentalized by their filopodia activity, with
each compartment having distinct cellular functions and molecular compositions. We propose an axon
relay mechanism where the muscle cells act as guideposts, and we demonstrate that muscle filopodia
refine axon targeting. Our future directions include identifying downstream signaling molecules at the
axon relay site as well as assessing the functional response of other muscle-interacting cells like axonal
glia and sensory neurons in absence of muscle filopodia.
